# PlasticPushing
This is a analytical/research specific repo for printing various plastics on a voron 3d printing machine

Introduction
I have been 3d printing for almost five years and have only owned two types of printers. a cartisian printer from Creality3D and my custom VoronDesign v2.4. Since I completed the build on the V2.4 I have not stopped printing and want to share my learnings with the rest of the community. 
Lets talk the basics first, You need to undertand that each printer and your environment will affect everything that is mentioned in this post. Since 3d printing is a skill that takes several hours to understand, all of these settings will have some deviation for your tuning.
Second, since this guide will focus more on tuning each filament manufacturer. Additonally, this is a repository for color palettes so enjoy the splurdge of plastics!
third please visit Ellis print tuning guide as his details are far more specialized in ABS and Voron printers as a whole. I would recommend especially you read the first lines because they will apply with all plastics, not just ABS or Voron printers!
https://github.com/AndrewEllis93/Print-Tuning-Guide

Ok so lets start with everyones current favorite.. PLA i just printed a ton of this stuff for the holidays and I learned a ton about how enclosed printers dont nessisarily enjoy soft pla 😉thats your first hint that pla likes cooling! 

For PLA you are going to want to print your standard temp tower and test cube, the first major truth you need to find is that the PLA you are using WILL act differently depending on the manufacturer, color, and environment. After you print out your temp tower you want to pay special attention to the walls/bridging/stringing and overhangs. seems like nothing new right? not exactly, with higher acceleration printers like Voron your speeds are likely naturally higher than they were on an open framed machine. this means that the plastic is getting laid down way faster then it might have been before. So now that you have a decent temperature selected and you know that you "likely" are printing it faster, we can move on from that step and run Pressure Advance. Assuming you are using Klipper you need to run PA again because this value is highly probable to be a higher value then it was with ABS. PLA is qute a bit stiffer then ABS so it actually does not flow as quickly once melted and pushed out the nozzle. What this means to you is that you will need to adjust your PA value to compensate for the change in material density. 

After you have selected your PA now you want to tune your Extrusion Multiplier, this value again, is going to change because pressure advance affects its "pressure" on corners and slower infilled surfaces, thats sort of the point of the setting! so expect it to affect your values in EM. 

Now we can do a real test print, its good practice at this time to make a backup copy of a working slicer setting as making major changes obviously can lead to new issues based on the changes from the previous comments. Once you back up your profile slice a new object and send the gcode to your printer. You want to monitor the print as PLA will likely suffer a bit of curling on small details and can force the printer to knock over the print. _I wouldnt know a thing or two about this 😅_

if you printed a successful small print then you are probably fairly happy with the progress. By now Stealthburner will liekly be normal on new-voron builds so your cooling would have recieved a great upgrade from when i first tuned these plastics on my machine. 

From here on out you should be fairly good to go with your first profile on PLA, now lets move on to something a bit more practical at least imo!

PETG Tuning

So PETG is a bit of a fussy and slothy material, you can print it fast but it will probably wink at you with crappy overhangs and bridges, you can print it super slow but then what is the fun in having a voron do it? I know I know, PETG is for plastic bottles.. or is it?
The greatest benifit use case imo that PETG has is that its forgiving flexibility and UV resistance makes it ideal for outdoor applicaitons that need a bit of heat deflection and obviously fair resistance to breaking down from UV rays. Im a plant enthusiast also so you can see why i like the stuff im sure!

PETG is EXTREMELY picky with print surfaces, specifically if you have PEI coated surfaces! and Glass! you MUST MUST MUST be very causios starting out with this stuff because if you dont, you probably wont have nice printing surface to try again, unless you have a backup.. you have a backup dont you? ok hopefully i didnt scare you off but be aware that PETG is super SUPER sticky stuff to certain ULTEM based surfaces. you would be wise to start printing higher off the z offset then lower, if i were you i would honestly start here by either laying a layer of hairspray like we old folks did back in earlier 3d printing days, and well.. still do. or just start your nozzle 1mm off the build plate, you will want to babystep this down until it obviously JUUST starts to stick, then drop it down about .05 steps or so to get a "tiny tiny" bit of squish going. I cant stress being careful enough with this, i know of people who DESTROYED thier build surface because they thought they could treat it like other common plastics. NO its not normal, dont treat it normal! ok.. you have been warned! 😌

again, to start off print a temp tower, thats usually the first thing you need to know when working with a new filament. Print the tower then run your PA tower, a EM cube tune, then a small test object. If you were like me when you first started with this stuff you probabbly are already haing overhang/bridging issues and not so great crisp edges, thats ok because again cooling is sort of being a nusiance here. PETG is a bit strange when in comes to cooling, some colors (darker) will prefer less cooling then lighter blends, i find that leaving your fan at about 80% consistently even after the 2nd layer is a good option to start. If you want go ahead and slowly bump up your cooling after the 4th or 5th layer to 100% petg also enjoys cooler "warm" ambient temps but can easily be printed with no enclosure. I like to take the time to clean up my acrylic panels while i hae petg being printed, but thats just me. Next up is bridges and overhangs, if you find that your overhangs and bridges are quite droopy there are a few basic trics you can try, first up, lower your perimter speeds by about 20%, if you were running 60mm/s drop them to 50 or 40, your going to make up the time later by tuning your infill speed. if you pulled an Ellis profile for abs then you might be using variable acceleration, i would advise you actually shut this off for now and stick with constant accell speeds. the reason is we want to see if your accells are affecting your print quality. PETG is naturally a soupy kind of plastic and it does not respond well to high speeds. A decent starting accell i find works for most Vorons seems to be around the 3000 or 4000 if you previously tuned your accells. Once you have a basic PETG profile made from your first few tunes, now we should look at retraction, PETG is the stickiest plastic i ever used in my printers. you are going to need to be patient with this because each manufacturer seems to act different with this specifically. since Voron mainly ususes direct drive retraction is not susually that high, so if you are susing a clockwork or equivelant, you will need to bump this value up a fair ammount. I find that 1.4mm seems sufficient with bondtech gears from teh BOM and about 60~75mm/s retract speed. Keep your retract/deretract values consisten_
